Well, good morning, everybody,
welcome to the Daily Source
Thank you very much for taking
time to download this mp3 file,
if some of you
may have received it
overnight as an enclosure in
aggregator.
In that case, thanks for
The first, what I'd like to do
explain exactly what this is,
the Daily Source
Code is going to be, and well,
the name already suggests, it's
that's
going to be daily.
And I'd like to elaborate a
bit on the name Daily Source
and what inspired
me to do this, where that came
By the way, I'm recording this
my car.
I'm on the way from our home in
to Breda in the Netherlands.
Pick up new pair of glasses and
with...
Oops.
It's a very important carriage.
I think I'm going to have to
another route.
Anyway, the Daily Source Code.
Let me back up here for a
I'm in a very narrow country
and there's a horse and drawn
coming my way.
So you know what?
I'm going to just step over here
while I'm talking to you guys,
just wait for
this guy to pass.
When I was on vacation just
in Sorrento, Italy, a couple of
things happened.
First of all, as if by magic, my
microphone, which I had lost for
few months,
I had the receiver apart but I
couldn't find the microphone
It was left over from our
show that we taped over a year
and I bought a couple
of really professional wireless
kits.
It cost about $2,000 each.
So this is great, has great
and has a great sound.
It's just fantastic.
Professional stuff.
So I found that in a suitcase
had been lurking there
for a couple of months
I thought, well, alright, now I
finally start doing some audio
again.
But also, I'd loaded up my iPod.
You may or may not know that I
created a couple of scripts that
parse some RSS feeds with
and automatically downloads
the MP3 files and adds them to
iTunes library and to my iPod.
I'm subscribed to the IT
feed.
And so I loaded that up.
Wave to this guy here. Sure,
Happy to do it.
I loaded it up.
And on there was a couple of
or a couple of sessions
from the open source developers
I believe.
And I forgot who the speaker
Of course, I'll be sure to find
and link to him.
I was talking about what source
really is.
Is source code the actual script
runs that makes your computer
do something or the machine code
sits underneath all that?
Or is the source code perhaps?
actually the written
the English explanation, not
funky English that a computer
interpret,
that explains what a program is
to do.
And I kind of subscribe to that
that maybe even an RFC or just a
description of,
okay, here's what I want this
program to do, here's how it
behave.
That is the actual source code,
the thought behind what
gets written in computer code or
language.
So if you think about a radio
or an audio program like this,
could, coincidentally, it's also
a program, right?
I guess you could say that this
the source code to me.
It's Adam's source code.
And every single day, a bit of
is filtered through to the web,
I write about what I'm thinking,
I've been reading.
You know, the links that I
the sites that I choose to link
all that comes from a certain
on the website.
on any given day or moment, and
what I call the source code.
So I figured if I have a web log
I've got all these links and
it might
be of some interest to some
to listen to the source code
all the ideas come
from.
The narrative that's running
in my head that I can't possibly
down.
other inspiration has been Dave
who started doing his morning
notes in
audio a while ago, and he did
a daily version during the
of the Democratic
National Convention. And I'm
to it. I just love listening to
source code, basically.
And his latest coffee notes,
he actually pleaded people to
to, he made a very
good point, which he and I have
before, and I think I've written
it
on the web as well, is that
coming to a head between
and journalists.
And it's all really about, on a
in Belgium here we stop at the,
stop for
pedestrians. Sure, man.
recollect my thoughts here for a
I didn't want to hit anybody.
This is kind of tough.
Hold on, let me just spark up.
About a half hour drive-out.
I'm trying to make this 15
So at any rate
The big
Revelation really of the promise
the web which they've says I
correctly is not necessarily web
It's the fact that when you
something you can link to the
so
If you interpreted something
someone wrote in a certain way
you have an opinion about it
You can write that and then kind
the unwritten rule is you link
the source and then people can
Form their own opinion and agree
disagree with you
that's one of the beauties of
web and
It doesn't work that way in
journalism because there is just
way to link in a radio show or
Television show or certainly not
a print publication. Well, I
you could print a URL
But it's not quite the same it
give your readers the same
access to check out the source
And I was listening to that and
was thinking, you know, wow,
so true.
interview so many times,
in the Netherlands where my wife
I are very well
known and are written about all
time in, unfortunately, usually
a tabloid magazine.
Sometimes there's a serious
but it really doesn't matter
writing it or who
did the interview or what
the journalist comes with. Once
read it in print, it's never
100% what you intended or the
you said it and it often has,
often opinionated by the
journalist, the writer, which is
okay, but there's no link to the
The sources,
in that case, would be the
that we had for the interview,
could be anywhere
from half hour on the phone to,
I've had interviews, for
the big Playboy magazine
interview that takes two days,
a photo session. And that's
down to X number of words
that the journalist has allotted
the space that is available for
story.
It's a deer.
Thanks for watching!
So as I was thinking about that,
was something that I wanted to
about, which
I will, but again, this is just
daily source code, so I'm kind
distilling through the
thoughts right now.
I found something that was
useful.
I got so sick and tired of
just writing crap about us and
information and just
you know, they couldn't even get
age right most of the time.
Which usually was to my
I remember there was a, at a
point, there was a big thing and
wrote about
some supposed tax inquiry that
going on into my business
That was on the front page of
newspapers, another newspapers,
know, pick up the
story and it was on the news
and all the actual errors would
pass from one
to the next, like the kids' game
telephone.
In fact, they usually got a
bit worse as one publication
another.
And there was another large
the newspaper that said, well,
really want to interview you and
wife about what's
going on and what's happening. I
you know, that's fine. Are you
going to
record the interview? It was for
newspaper. So a lot of, I'd say
out of ten journalists
record their interviews on
still on a cassette player,
cassette player.
Some good little funky and have
new fast, new fangled gadgets
maybe a mini-disk,
but very few MP3 recorders out
Really just more memo recording
And I said,
well, yeah, of course we're
to say, well, you know what, I'm
to record
our interview as well. And I'm
to reserve the right to publish
And that was something
new. They agreed to it, which I
was absolutely the right thing
do. But they
were definitely a little bit
out about this new concept. But
mean, when you think
about it, hey, you know, you're
me, what gives you the right to
the only one?
I mean, I should be able to
our conversation.
to. And I figured that that way
they start printing all kinds of
incorrect bits,
or maybe even if they just
it incorrectly, I would be able
point to the
source, the source code of that
and say, here you go. These guys
misunderstood
me or they took this out of
And I have to add something that
happens is
I may have explained it poorly.
may have not communicated
that in a certain
way and that just came out
That happens probably most
One second buddy,
you want to move in here? Wow,
this in the car really makes me
very nice and
courteous road user. Okay, this
the big trash truck. All right,
When the article
came out, by the way, and most
well, not most, but many
will give you
read the story before it's
and change anything. And said,
know, they did ask
a couple follow up questions
the phone later. And the article
good. And I don't
believe there was, I mean, you
really change any article sound
way you want
it to sound. But when it comes
the facts, these guys are really
their toes. They
had recorded themselves and it
two guys did the interview. And
came out very well.
And I think that part of that
because they knew that they
had to be on their
toes and get it right because I
publish the source code. I never
did publish
the source code. I still have
I felt that, you know, that just
necessary. And
in fact, just the idea that I
worked. So when you think about
that way, which
is a great way that journalists
their sources can work together
make better to
better results. Something that
who is ever interviewed might
to consider
doing. So I just flipped that
and said, well, hold on a
I've got source code.
The source code is what's
around in my head.
And it's what I'm reading and
I'm linking to and what my
are.
And I should make that
The only thing that's going to
is what just bandwidth.
I mean, I have so much time to
stuff.
I mean, the car a lot.
But it's really no effort.
And of course, I'm going to...
And it gives me another
to write a couple of nifty
that automates the
whole bit and does the ID3 tags
posts it to the right place and
it to my RSS
feed as an enclosure.
So all of that, of course, is
fun part for me is a fledgling
and program
or maybe I should say a
But again, you get all the
code for me if you're interested
it and you don't
have to listen to it at all.
You won't really lose it.
So another reason that I'm doing
and I do plan on it being daily
that I like doing
audio or radio.
I've been doing a morning radio
for almost a full year as of
31st. I've done it for a full
for
Radio Veronica in the
who asked me about a year ago
this time
if I could fill in for a month
their new morning guy could get
his
contract at a competing radio
and I can't even when they ask
damn you know a month of getting
at 3.30 in the morning to do a
from 6 to 9
I don't know if I last three
the month went okay and I really
into it
and I was enjoying it and a
show is it's kind of like this
know
you're talking to people you're
them wake up and talking about
stuff it's just what's going on
the world what's going on in the
community which is the country
the Netherlands and I guess the
is a global community so you can
about all kinds of stuff and we
a
great time on that show I mean
took the ratings up sky-high
in just
a couple of months by
taking the entire show on the
for a week and broadcast live
Camp Smitty and Asamawa, Iraq,
where the Dutch Marines were
And it was just a blast, you
And really it's just talking and
a little bit of music.
So that ends.
Oh, well, so the morning guy for
number of personal reasons
make it to the station,
and they kept saying, well, oh,
station management kept asking
to extend by another week
or another month.
I said, well, you know what, why
we just say we'll do this for a
year,
so I can actually build
and create something.
And that's my traffic alert.
this out.
Very in navel, direct restoque
tar fesperz.
Travo glan zam rifin a tarpo
van ai dresou van vediam.
D'imitin van ai d'imitin van ai
Okay, that's a traffic report
and it happens automatically on
So we did it for a full year and
winding down two more weeks.
So a little bit over.
Yeah, a little over two weeks
then I'll be a free man for
1st and Patricia
and I and our daughter Christina
coming 14 in just a week and a
We decided that
we want to change. Part of it
health reasons. Trish was
with heart disease earlier
this year. Not as horrible
as it sounds, but easy for me to
I guess. But it's not like
she has massive heart failure
disease but she has to pay
to her life and
what she's doing and is on
and has to keep a very healthy
And we want to
change to really get into that
so we've decided that we're
to move and we're going to move
out of the the Benalux and we've
the United Kingdom. So we've put
our both houses up for
sale the one in Amsterdam which
affectionately call the
that's actually been on the
for about two and a half, almost
years now.
The market is completely dead in
of Europe, I guess, and
for big luxury
houses.
There's just, ah, there's no
really, unless of course you're
to lower
your price, there's always a
for something if they're
We have the Castle in Belgium,
you've now put on the market.
I've already had a lot of
for that, of course it was also
the set, if you
will, for our reality show.
So a lot of people are familiar
it and we're pretty hopeful that
move relatively
quickly.
Price to sell, as they say,
house for entertaining
And then we're off and then
going to go to the UK.
We're not, well, we know the
area where we want to be, which
be south of
London, but within a reasonable
or train ride into the city.
And I
a totally open agenda. There's
that I have to do. Well, first I
to remember
what it's like to sleep in. You
not have to set the alarm clock
3.30 in the
morning. But just by saying
going to make this change,
things have happened.
I'm getting all kinds of new,
creative ideas. In addition,
been asked to write
a book. All kinds of things are
coming together. So I'm really
forward to
that in a way. It feels like I'm
my freedom back. The one thing I
want to
try to do is to do these daily
code, audio, blog posts. And I
it would be
since they're in English and to
an excellent advantage as a time
goes. I'm going
to try and have these up by, I
7 a.m. New York time. So if
driving to work
and you have your download or
downloading the
The MP3's from the RSS feed.
You'll have something to listen
on your morning commute.
That probably really won't be
until the first of September
I'm not doing
the morning show.
I just can't see getting, you
being done on the morning show
night in the
morning, my time.
I'm usually not home before to,
know, only give me a very small
before,
well, actually that would
be too late.
That would be 8 a.m. New York
So these will probably be up
9 or 10 a.m.
for the couple of weeks, first
of weeks.
It also gives me a chance to
out what I want to do with them.
One of the thoughts I had for
was to do a song of the day.
Just get you going with one song
I think either fits in with the
of the day
or the news of the day or the
of the world or state of
So I'm looking forward to that.
And again, it'll be what's going
in my mind.
What am I thinking about?
And by that time, I probably
five to eight entries on my web
And this will be the source code
that, what I was thinking about.
Which is pretty much on par for
I've posted today.
So that's the general idea.
Um...
As you can tell, there's a lot
talk of RSS and enclosures and
in this first daily source code.
You may or may not have read
I've been programming a little
been working in user talk,
which is scripting language that
with Frontier and Radio User
and also been doing some work in
Script,
which allows you to script your
to do things automatically.
And a little bit of Python,
I haven't delved into that as
as I want to.
But I'm really working on a
that'll make this a little bit
when it comes to downloading
under your iPod.
I have a kind of a beta version
now, and I'm subscribed to a big
One is the IT conversations,
is great because almost every
there's a new interview or panel
session coming up.
down the pipe and it's right
my iPod in the morning on my
commute to
the radio station. I just
you know, I didn't have to do
I didn't have
to click or wait, just pick up
iPod in the morning, throw the
on, the earphones
in and there's something there.
of course Dave's morning coffee
is in there and
something called blog, was it
digger or blog digger? I'd have
look that up, which
is an RSS 2.0 feed with audio
It comes from blog decks and
just stuff
that it's scraped off of the web
there's about 5 to 10 new MP3s
that as well. It's
always very surprising, all
of wacky stuff that just kind of
up. Total serendipity,
if you will. I have no idea
going to show up. A lot of it's
someone's very,
very interesting. So I'll start
to that as well. So the script
I've created,
doesn't work the way it should
and I already lost that source
by
accidentally compiling it in
and not knowing that you lose
source code.
But I'm going to start working
that again in in the also after
1st
so that you know you don't have
really think about oh how am I
to do this
what do I need with the news
how do I get
the mp3s from point A to point B
it should just be something as
as
start this program up and you
to your RSS feeds and it kind of
the rest
it just drops everything on your
and playlists and it even has a
little notification system so
know when something is new has
updated.
So I'm now just passing over the
into the Netherlands from
Thank you for accompanying me on
trip and
Tomorrow, I'll be back with
daily source code. Thanks for
and see you tomorrow. Bye